Yeah, go ahead. You were telling us about his
recruiting. Yeah, about Charlie Moran. Well, we
used to play two games a week with Texas at that time
because they were the big money, big gates. And
Charlie beat Texas University so regular that it
hurt them. They couldn't stand it. And it wound up
into a big street fight down there in Houston after
the game. And we run all the Texas University guys
off the Houston streets because we were all in
uniform. We knew what we were doing. In fact, I
think in all that disturbance, we came back to
College Station with about five
revolvers that we took off of the police that tried
to stop us. and their badges and their blackjacks.
So after about three years of that, both schools
were suffering because they missed that gate. And
they got together. The athletic
council from both schools got together. talked it
over and Texas said they wouldn't play us unless we
got rid of Charlie Moran
and that was the upshot of that. We gave Charlie a
farewell dress parade in the winter there when it
was pouring down pouring down rain and I'm telling
you it's one of the One of the things I'll always
remember, we rode him, we rode, we put Charlie on a
wagon, and he and Mrs. Moran and Tommy, he was a
little boy there, a boy about that, like that, rode
him down to the railroad station. They were
leaving there on that four, that three or four
o'clock train that came through there at that time
going north, H&TC. Well, they, uh, We played,
first game we played was in 1915, and we played at
College Station. That was one of the agreements
they made, that they would play alternately at A&M
and at Texas University. So that first game, just
before the game, this new coach that we had said,
boys, I want to read you a telegram. And he says,
He says, go out there and kick the hell out of them
for old Charlie.
Charlie.
Yeah, they sure did.
Go on with the branding incident. Well, that led up
to the branding incident. So when they got talking
about, you want to brand him, that steer with that
20 to 3 brand, we were sitting up there in a board
session like you do, still do, I'm sure. And we got
talking back around about, let's go over there and
brand that steer. And it was right between
semesters, end of January, somewhere along
there, wasn't that, that mid-term semester end.
And we got talking about what we'd do, and he said,
let's go over there and burn him. They said, nobody
seems to know what to do about it. I said, well, I
know what to do about it. And I spent enough time. I
said, I know what we'll need. He says, all we need is
a good string of rope, a couple of running irons,
and I said, get a
a
plumber's pot, one of those heating pots, I think
we can heat them irons on a plumber's pot. And that
one of the guys was in there, his father was a
contractor in Waco by the name of O.K. Johnson. And
O.K. says, I know where to get that. He says, we got
all that kind of equipment. And he says, I'll
furnish the car. Well, when a man says he furnished
a car at that time, back in 1915, that was
something.
So we all decided, we said, well, let's ask for a
little leave of absence for a couple of days, and
we'll go on up to Waco and get our equipment and slip
down to Austin that evening, and we'll put the
brand on. We went down there, and Abe Bull, you may
have met Abe, I don't know him. Abe got to be a pretty
big boy. He'd come out of Austin and married into a
banker's family and succeeded the family in the
office, became chairman of the board there at the
time of his death. But Abe was just a sort of a teller
or something in there about that time. Or maybe he
wasn't even married, he was just still. And Abe
said, now don't mention my name as having anything
to do about this brand he said, because I'm living
over
there. So we never did mention the name in there
about having anything to do with that brand.
But we slept in there. Oh, we got in there about 7
o'clock at night.
And he knew where they kept him down there and they
had a barn. down there where they kept him. Of
course, there was nothing to it but putting a brand
on him. Just went down there and threw a loop on him,
snared him up to a post and went down and looped him
around his iron legs and pulled him down and tied
him up. Got a heating pot, good and hot, put irons in
there and put a red big 13 to nothing brand on him.
Branded him from from his shoulder, went back to
his hip.
There was a young fellow down there on the campus, a
photographer. He went to school there. But he was a
pretty fair photographer. And he went over there
and took a picture of him. And when we got back to
Waco, that's when we got our first publicity on
that deal. We got in there, and there was old Jim
Grove. Of course, Jim and his family is an old
family in Waco, too. They operated a laundry there
for years and years. And we were down there on the
street, And there's a young fella came up there,
and he knew Jim, and got talking and talking, and
Jim was telling him what we had done, that we'd just
been down to Austin and branded that Longhorn
still. And he, oh, he was very much interested. He
said, I want to get the story for the paper. Got all
that in there, and then he took us out to Cameron
Park and snapped a bunch of pictures,
and wrote up the story, and it came out, and all the
other papers got a rerun on it. It'd run in all the
papers, and it'd run. San Antonio paper, Houston
paper, Dallas paper. Nobody ever saw you while you
were over there doing it? No. Oh, no way. Did you do
it at night? Yeah, at night. About what time? It was
about midnight. About midnight. About midnight.
It was close to midnight. I know it was, oh, man, it
was a... It was one of them clear, briskly cold
nights. You know, everything just twinkled,
frosty as it could be.
Well, was there much excitement after everybody
found out what you'd done? Oh, uh... It rankled
Austin, the student body over there,
terrifically. I know they, we went over there just
a short while over after that to play basketball.
And rolled over there on the whole cadet corps went
over there. It almost wound up into a, into a, into a
big, fight right there on the basketball field
inside the
gym where they played the game.
Oh, gee, they were mad. There were a couple of
basketball, a couple of football players.
I remember that one, Texas University. Was his
name McCollum? McCollum or some such name. He just
jumped up and down. We were sitting right here. I
had a seat right on the floor of the gym, and right
across the court on the other side was a bunch of
football players over there. They were just
hollering at one another the whole
time. And what year now did you graduate? 1917.
What did you do after you graduated? Wasn't there,
Army? Practically the entire senior class
went into service. There were a few for special
reasons that couldn't leave right then, but I
think at least 95% of them went right into service.
From then, when I got out of the service, I came down
here and went to farming. Where were you stationed
then when you were in the service? What did you do? I
was in the 64th Infantry, regular army. And where
were you most of that time? Well, on this side, I was
stationed for a while at Fort Bliss. And I was also,
later when we were brigaded, just before we moved
across, we were brigaded at Waco. forget what they
called that army post there. And from there we
moved right on up to Hoboken where we caught the
boat.
Where did you land? At Brest.
It's an old army barracks of Brest. They said it was
a barracks about that uh where um caesar at the time
of his invasion of england where he took off when he
went across the channel did you see any combat
while you were there yes we were in combat for uh
just we came in on the tail end of it and we got over
there in september and went right into the line
then we stayed there until it was a holding deal It
was a holding deal there. It had quieted down. Real
active fighting had kind of moved around because
they were almost stalemated. They were run right
up against a heavy
fortified area right around Brest. Brest was an
old German army setup. It was heavily, very
heavily fortified. and it had brought the, it had
brought the, you might say the,
our advance to a standstill, and they were moving
around toward the left. And they left us there to
hold until, until they could weaken fresh, I'd
say, action. And then we could move in. We were due
to move in We were due to move in on the 11th of
November. And I know on the 11th, when we were still
on the line there, on the holding position, just
artillery
and a little skirmish upon the line. That's all
that amounted to. I remember how quiet that
artillery sound got it on the limo. It just kept
getting more quiet, more quiet until it stopped.
And I mean when it stopped it looked like it just
made more noise than ever. After you've been
sitting in artillery area or offense for about 60
days, it really gets quiet when it stops or it gets
loud. And
you came then to the valley here after World War I.
And you went to farming? Yeah. What did you farm?
What were your major crops? Oh, I grew some general
field crops and vegetables. At that time, the, uh,
the, uh, Cetrus deal had not developed. It was a
little before the Cetrus deal developed. And then
I, uh, I, uh, like I say, after I formed a while, I
never had formed in my life until I came down here.
But after I found out, got on to how it was supposed
to be done, I got to making some money out of it. And,
like I said, after I made some money, I got into the
stock market. Then I traded my deal down here for
some property in Dallas and hit that just in the
time of the Depression and lost it up there. Came
back with my pocket junkie. What'd you do then?
Then what'd you do? Your flat broke then, so you
couldn't start over? What I did after that? Yeah.
That's what I said. I saw the footloose. I wasn't
able to establish any claim to a job with the
Extension Department.
And that friend of mine says, if you want to go in the
beer business, I'll set you up. And I went into the
beer bin this far. What year was this that you went
into the beer bin? That was in about 34. 34. So it's
after it became legal again. Yeah. And so what'd
you do? You opened up a tavern. Mm-hmm. How long did
you keep your tavern? Until about 40, 45. I sold out
in about 45. And then what'd you do? Well, I dabbled
around real estate for a couple years. and made
some money. And then I went into the stock market
here. By that time, I had me a pretty fair little
bankroll, and I went into the, and I acquired me a
pretty nice block of stocks on the stock market.
Until a friend of mine came along, who was broke,
and he was going to make me some money out of it. on an
adventure that he had. And I didn't want to do it,
but he finally got me down. I sold my stock and went
into him and then lost that. I salvaged enough out
of that deal to get another foothold
and wound up with what I got. I see. And then you're
retired now. Yeah, I haven't done anything for
about 12, oh, about 15 years. I see. My health got
pretty bad. That one stage,
I don't know just what it was. I went to see quite a
bunch of doctors, clinics.
My neighbor came over here to see me. I was sitting
around him. sitting there talking, but they came
in here to visit with me. I see them now every once in
a while, and they laugh at me. They said, yeah, ask
me if I remember the time they came in here and
talked to me, because they didn't think I was going
to live till morning.
Thank you, Mr. Rothy. You've given me a great deal
of useful information. I certainly appreciate
it. Well...